Joe Biden announced that the US would
construct a pier to transport Aid into
Gaza during his State of the Union
Address in
March it was a time of growing anger in
the Democratic party base at the US's
unconditional support for Israel's
campaign of bombing and enforced
starvation a temporary peer will enable
a massive increase in the amount of
humanitarian assistance getting into
guysa every day the announcement was
reported to have taken many in the
Pentagon by surprise but the US Military
vowed to construct the pier and have it
operational within weeks and over 2
months later on May the 17th the pier
did become operational since then the
Pentagon says it's unloaded more than
8,100 metric tons of humanitarian Aid to
Gaza it's a fraction of what Gaza needs
and it's unclear where much of that Aid
ended up in late May Pentagon spokesman
Pat Ryder was asked if any of the Aid
had been delivered to the people of Gaza
this was his response as of today I do
not believe so in recent weeks much of
the aid was piling up in a staging area
adjacent to the pier humanitarian groups
were unwilling to transport the supplies
out of concern for safety and the US has
long insisted there would be no us boots
on the
ground what's finally been the Fatal
blow for this project is that it appears
the Pentagon was surprised by the
mediterranean's conditions in the summer
conditions that this type of pair is not
designed to withstand the paer had to be
dismantled several times due to what the
US says were Technical and weather
related issues most recently several
days ago now due to high sea States
expected this weekend Central Command
has removed the temporary Pier from its
anchored position in Gaza and will tow
it back to ashdod Israel an attempt to
reattach the pier was aborted on
Wednesday and soon the entire project
will be scrapped the $230 million Pier
was in operation for a total of 20 days
since its construction areas of Gaza
have officially been declared as
entering fullblown famine and at the end
of May the UN said Aid deliveries had
dropped by some 2/3 due to Israeli
military action throughout the
conception construction and brief
operation of the pier the land routs
that could Supply the people of Gaza
with what they need were available but
the US didn't use its leverage to force
Israel to open them for the safe
delivery of Aid Shia bransi Al jazer
Wasington Kenya's president's
promising make sure to subscribe to our
Channel to get the latest news from Al
jazer